1	Reek of Putrefaction	
Carcass
Reek of Putrefaction (1988)

'Genital Grinder' 1:28

Let us start pure, let's start with the first track from the first goregrind release. Let's start at the first point of worship for the majority of bands in this genre before Carcass cleaned up their act. (and production, fuck) Sprawled out for dissection now lies a mixture of 80s old-school death metal sensibilities and the morbid humour of hardcore D-beat acts active in Britain at the time.

the collage-nature of the cover though, heaving out the guts and filth that lies within.	
2	Ultimo mondo cannibale	
Impetigo
Ultimo mondo cannibale (1990)

'Bloody Pit of Horror' 4:17 (1:36 after the intro)

Alternatively 'The Revenge of The Scabby Man' (2:39)

Here another key part of Goregrind appears, Sampling. Typically sourced from schlocky B-movies and exploitation films (or pornos in the case of pornogrind), they help give off that horror movie vibe that bands in this genre strive for. Stevo Dobbins's (also the bass player) vocals range from high pitched snarls to a less extreme version of Carcass's pitched down vocals.

This record is also similar to Carcass's work in that its split between goregrind classics like 'Bloody Pit of Horror' and morbid death metal anthems like 'Mortado'.

Sample Notes:
'Bloody Pit of Horror' - ILSA Harem Keeper of the Oil Sheiks
'The Revenge of the Shabby Men' - Ilsa: She Wolf of the SS	
3	Putrefactive and Cadaverous Odes About Necroticism	
Pathologist
Putrefactive and Cadaverous Odes About Necroticism (1992)
	
4	Emetic Cult	
Haemorrhage
Emetic Cult (1995)

'Foetal Mincer' (2:21)

If you know the old Carcass worship sound, you know what this. Haemorrhage has been plugging away at the style for years and years and this is where it all began, with shaky blast beats, gurgling vocals, and deathy grindy punky riffs left and right. It's not dramatically developed music in any sense; the production is good but still amateurish, instrumental performances are off and on in quality, and the songwriting is catchy but far from stellar. There's the usual suspects of tremolo riffs versus those that are more or less chuggy or punky, the occasional d-beat, and a certain noisiness to everything going on.

The songwriting is good. Haemorrhage probably stole 90% of the riffs on this album but it doesn't really matter because they never claimed to be original. The songs are catchy if not particularly memorable on their own and the spastic high/low/everywhere in between vocals are pretty cool. If you were simply told what Haemorrhage sounds like, what you hear in your head would be this album: enthusiastic, unprofessional, and surprisingly good despite its amateurish aims. It's not the sort of music that will convert a power metal fan to the death/grind scene, but it's a fun listen every once in a while. Haemorrhage excels at making short, catchy songs, and this album has fourteen of them for your listening pleasure.

If you like Haemorrhage or Carcassy deathgrind, just buy it already. Then again, if you're in either of those audiences, you probably already own it. By another copy of it anyway, I don't know, get the hell away from me. Noktorn	
5	Grinding Opus of Forensic Medical Problems	
Pathologist
Grinding Opus of Forensic Medical Problems (1993)

'Cannibalistic Disfigurement' (4:31)

As far as Carcass influenced (plagiarising is perhaps more precise) gore grind goes Pathologist were among the best. Despite the massive debt to Carcass and relative lesser quality they capture a similarly musty and bloated vibe with a degree of character that stops this from becoming pointless hero worship. Both their albums are excellent examples of the genre, though Grinding Opus is more technically accomplished their debut is my personal favourite for its sloppy rotten atmosphere.~devouredbyvegans	
6	A Chapter of Accidents	
Dead Infection
A Chapter of Accidents (1995)

'Airplanes Catastrophe' 2:35

Despite how much sampling lends itself to Goregrind, sometimes they need to be stripped away to give a band a sense of bluntness and filth only replicated by 'red rooms' of the dark web.

The production on this album could almost be considered the benchmark for production for future bands to lunge themselves towards, Blastbeats stripping bodies of flesh;
Bass as thick as a brick,
Guitars as heavy as the stereotypical Goregrind listener.

Now, without using any hyperbole, this is one of the most straight-forward goregrind releases out there. Some of the guitar lines are reminiscent of Scum-era Napalm Death with their sloppy grooves. I also like the whole theme behind the lyrics, of accidents gone gory.	
7	The Encyclopedia of Serial Murders	
Catasexual Urge Motivation
The Encyclopedia of Serial Murders (1996)

'Vivid Stains in Hematomania's Delirium' (4:21)

Now in comparison to the endless Carcass worship that runs sloppily through Goregrind, CUM here brings in elements from Industrial and occasionanly turns down the tempo to Death-Doom throughout the 22 tracks. The drum machine is used rather well in this release, with the drum samples having more of an electronic basis rather than a metal base. Despite the electronic elements, this still remains an proper gorefest. The concept of the album appears to cover killing and the psychology behind such acts with titles like ' Mass Murder, the Only Way to Become God' and 'Murder Is Better Than Birth'.
Those poetic descriptions of death I believ tie this release up with the 'Guinea Pig' films that were made in Japan during the mid-80s.

Further Reading(Long ass review)
http://trialbyordeal666.blogspot.com/2011/12/review-catasexual-urge-motivation.html	
8	Gore Metal	
Exhumed
Gore Metal (1998)

'Casketkrusher' (3:24)

And here the bridge is formed, the gap between the goregrind of Carcass and the deathgrind of Terrorized, filled in with the flesh and meat of Exhumed.

So yeah, this was a pretty good album, living up to the title, does bring together the B- movie image and general shit of goregrind with a sense of structure and melody that would never be attributed to Symphonies of Sickness.	
9	Carnivorous Erection	
Regurgitate
Carnivorous Erection (2000)
	
10	Forensick	
Disgorge
Forensick (2000)

'Urethrive Decortico-Xanthomatose Muco Gestated Scaffolds' (4:23)

That fucking repulsive cover already speaks volumes for the intensity of the album. The production is SO raw that it overshadows all of the kvlt demo raw black metal stuff you have heard in your life: the bass and the guitar almost aren't audible at all, because everything is buried beneath the grating wall that are the constantly pummeling drums combined with aural distortion and powerful death grunt vocals. It's really difficult to make out a clear guitar riff here.

Due to all that, this album can't be listened like your general death metal and goregrind stuff. The sound is (although probably unintentionally) actually closer to The Gerogerigegege than Carcass, as you won't be finding any hints of melody on this thing.~nightwrath	
11	Twitch of the Death Nerve	
Blue Holocaust
Twitch of the Death Nerve (2004)

'Twitch of the Death Nerve' (1:54)

A bit of an oddity in terms of goregrind, wearing the skin of the Giallo film scene, this has become a second-tier goregrind classic over time. Although the drum machines might turn off some(personally unless it's cybergrind, I don't enjoy drum machines in grindcore) the riffs do display a sense of eerie melody that is rare for goregrind. But fuck me, you gotta try to make your production as cheap and sleazy as possible.	
12	Jig-Ai	
Jig-Ai
Jig-Ai (2006)

'Pec Nam Spadla vs Shakal Pes' (1:22)

Amongst everything dying and piggies squealing, this peals back skin to reveal a set of pulsating grooves and an 'otaku' aesthetic.
This track here is one of the more 'bouncy' tracks I can find in goregrind, makes sense that it's two children's songs mashed up.	
13	Left Hand Pathology	
General Surgery
Left Hand Pathology (2006)

'The League of Extraordinary Grave Robbers' (2:30)

Coming off a 16-year hiatus, this album actually saw some coverage from outside the goregrind community. While another bout of Carcass worship is always enjoyable, here it directly sounds like a direct continuation of the path that Carcass was going and not a retread of familiar flesh.	
14	Olidous Operettas	
The County Medical Examiners
Olidous Operettas (2007)

'Casper's Dictum' (4:12)

Carcass copycatism done by a trio of legit doctors. The music in here is no joke however: this is pretty damn legit deathgrind, it's like the direct sequel that Symphonies of Sickness never had, with slightly worse riffs and a more clear production. While this is an unabashed ripoff and doesn't even try to cover it up, it elevates plagiarism to the point of art - it's done so well and true to the original that I can only give these guys a big thumbs up, since this could probably even pass for a Carcass full-length (and then Carcass would get accused of recycling their own riffs). It's like watching somebody repaint Mona Lisa in front of your eyes.

Oh yeah, and the cover art is a scratch 'n' sniff that smells of rotten meat. If that's not awesome, then I don't know what is. ~nightwrath	
15	Vanished in the Cosmic Futility	
Purulent Jacuzzi
Vanished in the Cosmic Futility (2010)

'Spastic Dysphonia' (0:48)

Innovation in goregrind is scarce, the bones of Carcass well picked. Here a band has meshed goregrind into brutal death metal. riffs falling into slam patterns and a rare technicality not seen in goregrind.	
16	Shit Beast	
Gutalax
Shit Beast (2011)

'Anus Ice Cream' (0:51)

A band with a friendly approach to the gore, and one of the semenal releases in the Pornogrind scene which is more focused on having fun times in the mosh pit and less dying. rather than the medical journals of bands past, pornogrind knicks its aesthetic from Troma-esque films and comics. and boobies. while not innovating, its bloody harmless fun.	
17	Succumbed to Infection	
Active Stenosis
Succumbed to Infection (2015)

'HAD (HIV-Associated Dementia)' (0:42)

Here lays Active Stenosis, proving once and for all that the turn from Carcass-worship to gorenoise wasn't a quick one, but a slow-paced sludge into esoteric waters.

This band got stuck in that sludge ladies and mangentle, stuck between Exhumed and LDOS, it's not too noisy as to completely conceal the melodies and riffs, but filthy enough to excite the goregrind veterans.

In short, its pretty good

5/4	
18	Over the Corpse of a Study	
Phyllomedusa
Over the Corpse of a Study (2018)

'Hypertrophied' (0:13)

Continuing the evergoing push for extremity that has become a long-term goal for goregrind artists, lies this little-known release. I think this one will cover the gorenoise scene in a better fashion then one of the many miscellaneous gorenoise groups. In terms of noisy goregrind, this holds up pretty well, especially with the actual harsh noise elements used throughout the record. The creator is Buckethead-levels of prolific putting out hundreds of releases under different aliases. So if you like this release, there's plenty more where that came from!	
19	Bakyunsified (Moe to the Gore)	
Houkago Grind Time
Bakyunsified (Moe to the Gore) (2020)

'Is the Order a Blastbeat?' 1:29

One development in the world of goregrind is Otakugrind. leeked out from the melting plot of internet sickos that produced such genres like lolicore. sample sources swap from snuff and sex to sicking slice-of-lives.
despite a aesthetic swap from pus-filled to oddly squishable, the songs remain the same.	
20	Putrefaction in Progress	
Last Days of Humanity
Putrefaction in Progress (2006)

'A Divine Proclamation of Finishing the Present Existence' (3:11)


Many consider goregrind as sort of an in-between stage between the development of grindcore into deathgrind. Which when taking into account the rate at which the genre has over the past 10 years been reduced to a secondary genre tag or sharing the main genre tag with deathgrind, does seem like fact. The genre itself has ground to a halt in terms of innovation. While I'm sure people will still worship Carcass and LDOS until we die, in terms of innovation (drum machines, pitch shifting) we might have reached the limit, short of the record snuffing the listener. The only way forward in that regard is with better tech, better drum machines, etc.

In that case, to wrap up this box set, we need a final defining album to round off this list. Something that takes all of the goregrind elements (pitch-shifted vocals, quick drum playing, filthy bass) and just removes all subtlety, all appeals to anything melodic, just rhythms breaking dimensional barriers and guitars tuned so low, they sound like an amplified bass.

In other words, here's Putrefaction in Process, enjoy!
